National Flag of India: The 'National flag of India' is a horizontal tricolor of deep saffron (kesari) at the top, white in the middle and dark green at the bottom in equal proportion. In the centre of the white band is a navy blue wheel which has 24 spokes. Read More...

National Anthem of India: The 'National Anthem of India' is the song 'Jana-gana-mana'. It composed originally in Bengali by Rabindranath Tagore. 'Jana-gana-mana' was adopted in its Hindi version by the Constituent Assembly as the national anthem of India on 24 January 1950. Read More...

National Song of India: The 'National Song of India' is 'Vande Mataram'. It is composed in Sanskrit by Bankimchandra Chatterjee. It has an equal status with 'Jana-gana-mana', the national anthem of India. 'Vande Mataram' was first sung in the 1896 session of the Indian National Congress. Read More...

National Emblem of India: The 'National Emblem of India' is an adaptation of the Lion Capital of Ashoka at Sarnath. Sarnath is near Varansi, Uttar Pradesh, India. The Lion Capital was erected in the third century BC by Emperor Ashoka. The national emblem of India is symbolic of contemporary India's reaffirmation of its ancient commitment to world peace and goodwill. Read More...

National Calendar of India: The 'National Calendar of India' is the official civil calendar in use in India. It is also called Saka calendar. It was adopted from 22 March 1957 along with the Gregorian calendar. The national calendar is based on the Saka Era with Chaitra as its first month and a normal year of 365 days. Read More...

National Tree of India: The 'National Tree of India' is the 'Banyan' Tree. It often refers specifically to the Indian banyan or Ficus benghalensis. It is a fig that starts its life as an epiphyte (a plant growing on another plant). The leaves of the banyan tree are large, leathery, glossy green and elliptical in shape. Read More...

National Fruit of India: The 'National Fruit of India' is the 'Mango'. The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera. Mangoes are rich in vitamin A, C, and D. It is also called the king of fruits. There are over 100 varieties of mangoes in India. Read More...

National Flower of India: The 'National Flower of India' is 'Lotus'. It is scientifically known as 'Nelumbo Nucifera'. It is a sacred flower and occupies a unique position in the art and mythology of ancient India and has been an auspicious symbol of Indian culture since time immemorial. Read More...

National Animal of India: The 'National Animal of India' is 'The Tiger'. It is the symbol of India's wealth of wildlife. It has a strong body which is brownish with black stripes on it. It has a long tail. Its padded feet have sharp claws. There are four teeth, two in the upper jaw and two in the lower, Read More...

National Bird of India: The 'National Bird of India' is 'The Peacock'. It is a colourful, swan-sized bird, with a fan-shaped crest of feathers, a white patch under the eye and a long, slender neck. It is a found in many parts of India. It eats up harmful insects and therefore its a good friend of farmers.